---
title: "A complete guide to B2B data compliance and cold outreach"
description: "Ensure your B2B data protection is rock-solid and your cold outreach remains fully compliant with local laws. This guide covers essential definitions of data compliance and provides actionable steps to align your outbound sales strategy with current regulations and safety standards."
summary: "In today’s era of big data, data has become central to marketing and strategy. This data-filled world of marketing comes with a caveat, there are issues such as data compliance, consent, and intent that come with data. If you are wondering what data protection is and how to do it, you have come to the right place."
publishedAt: 2026-04-14
coverImage: "https://assets.hubsell.com/insights/69cf9caa0dd3ee3a61659632_A-complete-guide-to-B2B-data-compliance-and-cold-outreach.avif"
thumbnail: "https://assets.hubsell.com/insights/69cf9ca0419432880336058a_Thumbnail-A-complete-guide-to-B2B-data-compliance-and-cold-outreach.avif"
readTime: "29 min read"
featured: false
sources: "<p>Featured image licensed under Unsplash License:</p><p><a href=\"https://unsplash.com/photos/futuristic-earth-map-technology-abstract-background-represent-global-connection-concept-m2pxgGc1Yas\" target=\"_blank\" rel=\"noopener\">https://unsplash.com/photos/futuristic-earth-map-technology-abstract-background-represent-global-connection-concept-m2pxgGc1Yas</a></p>"
draft: false
---

<p id="">If you handle any data from your customers, even if it is just an email address, you need to have rock-solid data security. And if you do outbound sales of any kind, you need to ensure that your cold outreach is compliant with local cold email laws.</p><p id="">In this blog, I will discuss what data protection and how to do it as well as how to make your cold outreach complaint with the local laws and regulations.</p><p id=""><strong id="">Table of contents</strong><br>-Definition of B2B data compliance and the two types of data protection<br>-Demystifying common legal terms related to data compliance<br>-Is cold email legal?<br>-How is cold email different from spam?<br>-Benefits of adopting data compliance in your organisation<br>-How to achieve impeccable standards of data protection and privacy for your customers<br>-Guidelines for sending cold emails legally<br>-Conclusion</p><h2 id="">What is B2B Data Compliance?</h2><p id="">Data compliance is a term used to describe formal standards and practices for ensuring your customer data is protected from loss, theft, corruption, and misuse. Data compliance as a term includes all regulations that your organisation must follow, in terms of how you organise your customers’ data, use and store it. This means no matter who your customer is, you must keep their personally identifiable information (PII) and financial details confidential, and prevent their sensitive data from falling into the wrong hands.</p><p id="">There are two kinds of data you need to pay attention to when it comes to data protection: personal data and business data.</p><p id=""><strong id="">Personal data:</strong> Personal data refers to any information that can directly or indirectly identify an individual, and this is directly under purview of data compliance legislations. Personal data includes everything from names, identity numbers, locations and email addresses or usernames to cookies and IP addresses.</p><p id=""><strong id="">Business data:</strong> Business data is information related to a business, such as its name, public email and landline number. Business data is not protected under data compliance laws. However, the line is very thin as information in relation to one-person companies may constitute as personal data where it allows the identification of a person. Moreover, some business email addresses also fall under personal data, such as those email addresses with names of individuals.</p><p id="">Let us break down some common legal terms related to b2b data compliance in the next section.</p><h2 id="">Common data related legal terms demystified</h2><p id=""><strong id="">Digital Identity: </strong>A digital identity is an online or networked identity adopted or claimed in cyberspace by an individual, organization or electronic device. With each upload, each click and every second you spend online, you leave behind some traces of your identity in cyberspace which in totality forms your digital identity.</p><p id=""><strong id="">Personally Identifiable Information (PII): </strong>Personally identifiable information represents any sensitive information connected to an individual that can identify or pinpoint their location. While PII has several formal definitions, generally speaking, it is information that can be used by organizations on its own or with other information to identify, contact, or locate a single person, or to identify an individual in context.</p><p id=""><strong id="">Personally Protected Information (PPI):</strong> PPI refers to information that is non-public and protected by the government. This includes a person’s social security number, home address, date of birth, and home phone number.</p><p id=""><strong id="">Anonymization</strong>: Anonymization is a data processing technique that removes or modifies personally identifiable information to create data sets that inform but do not reveal the identities of the people represented.</p><p id=""><strong id="">Pseudonymisation</strong>: Data processing under pseudonymisation creates a separation between the data subject and the personal data. A person cannot be identified without additional data that is stored separately. Compliance laws like the GDPR advice organisations to pseudonymise and/or encrypt all personal data. This encryption may not stop malicious actors accessing the information altogether, but it does make it much harder for them.</p><p id=""><strong id="">Consent</strong>: An independently offered indication of a person’s interest through a statement or affirmative action, qualifies as consent around personal data so long as there is an option to withdraw consent (for instance via an ‘unsubscribe’ button at the bottom of marketing emails)</p><p id=""><strong id="">Explicit</strong> <strong id="">consent</strong>: Some data compliance laws require consent with a written statement or a digital note, the key being that it must be able to be verified, something that would be difficult to do with an oral form of consent. This type of consent is called explicit consent.</p><p id=""><strong id="">Unambiguous</strong> <strong id="">consent</strong>: Unambiguous consent involves knowingly checking a box or agreeing to technical terms which clearly indicate in this context the data subject’s acceptance of the proposed processing of his or her personal data.</p><p id=""><strong id="">Opt</strong> <strong id="">in</strong> <strong id="">consent</strong>: An opt-in consent requires organisations to obtain explicit consent from the user before collecting and processing their personal data. The explicit consent is sought by asking for an affirmative action for indicating your consent to allow processing of your personal data. For eg. Whenever you visit a website, you can manually opt in to retain your online activity for various purposes.</p><p id=""><strong id="">Opt</strong> <strong id="">out</strong> <strong id="">consent</strong>: Opt-out means that the recipient has to withdraw consent after your initial outreach. There are two main ways through which opt-out options are offered to the consumer:</p><p id="">a) Pre-emptive opt-out in which you can untick/uncheck a pre-selected checkbox</p><p id="">b) Consent withdrawal where you are provided a clear option to withdraw your permission or change your preferences through an unsubscribe button in your mail or newsletter.</p><p id=""><strong id="">Legitimate</strong> <strong id="">interest</strong>: An unspoken agreement (though enforced by laws like GDPR) that allows a user to trust that companies will use the data they collect for things of use or importance to the individual. It depends on purpose, necessity, and balance. As a company requesting data from your customer, you must ensure you have a legitimate interest in asking for the information and that legitimate interest is not overridden by the individual’s interests, rights, or freedoms.</p><p id=""><strong id="">First</strong>–<strong id="">party</strong> <strong id="">data</strong>: The data you collect directly from your audience or customers is called first-party data. This data may include intent data from behaviors, actions or interests demonstrated across your website(s) or app(s), your CRM data, Subscription data or Data from your social media accounts.</p><p id=""><strong id="">Second</strong>–<strong id="">party</strong> <strong id="">data</strong>: This is the data you get from another organization’s first party data. Second party data is similar to first party data, but it comes from a source other than your own audience.</p><p id=""><strong id="">Third</strong>–<strong id="">party</strong> <strong id="">data</strong>: Third party data is data that you buy from outside sources who generally do not hold data but source it on demand. A third party data aggregator collects and organises this data for you in compliance with data protection laws. A good example of this is hubsell’s data processing as a service (DPaaS).</p><p id=""><strong id="">Walled</strong> <strong id="">gardens</strong>: A walled garden is a data approach where all information sought from customers is kept in a closed ecosystem with all operations managed by the ecosystem controller.</p><p id=""><strong id="">Dark</strong> <strong id="">patterns</strong>: Dark patterns are actions that nudge users into making uninformed choices about their personal data which they do not intend, typically to their own detriment and to the benefit of the organisation. These may be tactics or practices intended to trick people on the internet into purchasing, committing to, or signing up for things without clearly understanding that they are doing it.</p><p id="">Now that we have gone through some common aspects of data compliance, we come to a differentiating factor, the location. Data compliance is worldwide but the laws are different, depending on where you are or who you sell to.</p><p id="">Before we go in detail into different region-specific B2B data compliance laws, let us look at the legalities of cold email.</p><h2 id="">Is cold email legal?</h2><p id="">Cold email is the kingpin of outbound marketing but there still remains to be a lot of confusion around the subject. The biggest one being: is it legal to cold email a complete stranger for commercial purposes?</p><p id="">The answer is rather simple, cold emailing is legal but spamming is not.</p><p id="">In the next section, let us explore the differences between cold email and spam, and find out exactly what will keep you in the safer spectrum.</p><h2 id="">How is cold email different from spam?</h2><p id="">Governments in several countries have actually introduced legislation to regulate spam emails. That is why any sales professional who wants to stay on the right side of the law should know the difference between cold email and spam email.</p><p id=""><strong id="">There are three key differences between a cold email and spam.</strong></p><h3 id="">1. Cold email is targeted and personalised</h3><p id="">The first key point of distinction stems from where you get your contacts from. Usually, an email is considered spam if the sender sends mass unsolicited emails to a list of recipients without bothering to know who those recipients are, or if the email is even applicable for them. These email lists are purchased or scraped from thousands of websites using bad prospecting softwares.</p><p id="">A cold email is targeted towards a list of prospects who you feel can benefit from your product or service. The list of contacts is carefully curated either after extensive research by your marketing teams or with the help of B2B data providers like hubsell which provide B2B contacts on demand. Additionally, hubsell allows you to use multiple dynamic and static placeholders that makes your message as personalised as can be.</p><h3 id="">2. Cold email is relevant to the buyer</h3><p id="">Cold emails are intentional and personalised to the recipient’s needs.<br>It aims to provide value to the recipient, helping them address any unique goal or challenge they may be facing.</p><p id="">In contrast, spam emails focus on promoting the product rather than focusing on the recipient.</p><p id="">While cold emails involve researching the potential customer and matching the product offering to the recipient, spam emails are usually just one generic mass email sent to hundreds or thousands of people without any tweaks.</p><h3 id="">3. Cold email is authentic, clear and concise</h3><p id="">Cold emails are always honest about their intent. The subject lines of cold sales emails usually indicate their purpose and don’t leave the recipient guessing what the message is about.</p><p id="">In contrast, spam emails mostly use ambiguous subject lines and sometimes even deceptive or clickbait subject line ploys unrelated to the actual message. Their aim is just to get the recipient to open the email.</p><p id=""><strong id="">So is cold email always legal?</strong><br>As long as it is done right, cold emailing is perfectly legal.</p><p id="">However, various countries have their own rules regarding what’s “right” for unsolicited commercial emails. It’s crucial you keep these in mind for your cold email outreach campaign.</p><h2 id="">What are the different B2B data compliance and cold outreach laws?</h2><p id="">Now there are a myriad of industry-specific and location-specific regulations concerning cold outreach and data security and privacy laws for you to know about depending on your business model.</p><p id="">I have collated some of the most well-known and broadly utilised regulations below.</p><h3 id="">Data protection and cold outreach in the European Union</h3><p id="">In Europe, the GDPR and PECR defines rules to give EU citizens more control over their personal data and outreach.</p><p id="">While PECR prohibits specific unsolicited commercial messages, GDPR protects recipients from the way organisations gain their data and keep it secure.</p><h4 id="">Data laws</h4><p id="">Europe’s GDPR is one of the most popular privacy laws in the world due to its clarity and breadth of descriptions.</p><p id="">Under the terms of GDPR(General Data Protection Regulation) issued in 2018, not only do organisations have to ensure that personal data is gathered legally and under strict conditions, but those who collect and manage it are obliged to protect it from misuse and exploitation, as well as to respect the rights of data owners – or face penalties for not doing so.</p><p id="">The GDPR requires a legal basis for data processing and this requirement must follow one of the following legal bases:</p><ul id=""><li id="">Processing is necessary to satisfy a contract to which the data subject is a party.</li><li id="">You need to process the data to comply with a legal obligation.</li><li id="">You need to process the data to save somebody’s life.</li><li id="">Processing is necessary to perform a task in the public interest or to carry out some official function.</li><li id="">You have a legitimate interest to process someone’s personal data. This is the most flexible lawful basis, though the “fundamental rights and freedoms of the data subject” always override your interests, especially if it is a child’s data.</li></ul><p id="">GDPR applies to any organisation operating within the EU, as well as any organisations outside of the EU which offer goods or services to customers or businesses in the EU. What this ultimately means is that almost every major corporation in the world needs a GDPR compliance strategy.</p><p id="">Penalties for not adhering to the GDPR are severe, with the maximum fine being €20 million or 4% of annual worldwide turnover for the preceding year – whichever is greater.</p><h4 id="">Cold outreach laws</h4><p id="">If you’re sending marketing emails to E.U. citizens, you’ll need to comply with Privacy and Electronic Communications Regulations 2002 (PECR), along with ensuring that your data is obtained and processed in accordance with with GDPR guidelines.</p><p id="">Privacy and Electronic Communications Regulations 2002 (PECR), which is a basis for national laws governing this area, specifying that “everyone has the right to respect for their private and family life, home and communications.”</p><p id=""><strong id="">A. Why should you comply?</strong><br>The general aim of the PECR is to prohibit certain unsolicited commercial messages. As with all E.U. directives, it leaves it to the member states to translate into law.</p><p id="">On top of that, the GDPR dictates how organisations obtain recipient data and keep it secure.</p><p id="">As a result, anyone undertaking digital marketing or sending sales emails will need to comply with both the PECD and GDPR.</p><p id="">The GDPR states that the fines will be “effective, proportionate and dissuasive” for each individual case based on their statutory catalogue of criteria. Among other things, intentional infringement, a failure to take measures to mitigate the damage which occurred, or lack of collaboration with authorities can increase the penalties.</p><p id="">For especially severe violations, listed in Art. 83(5) GDPR, the fine framework can be up to 20 million euros, or in the case of an undertaking, up to 4 % of their total global turnover of the preceding fiscal year, whichever is higher.</p><p id="">Violation of PECR can have a fine of up to £500,000 which can be issued against the organisation or its directors.</p><p id=""><strong id="">B. How to comply?</strong><br>When sending unsolicited emails, it is possible to remain PECD and GDPR compliant by ensuring that these emails are directed to people who will find the message helpful. You also have to fulfil other requirements such as:</p><ul id=""><li id="">The sender must identify themselves and the topic of the email, provide accurate sender details, and include a genuine physical address in the email.</li><li id="">There must be a straightforward, unambiguous way for recipients to opt-out of future emails and request the deletion of their personal data.<br>Apart from these general rules, each country in the E.U has some regulations which supplement the GDPR. So don’t forget to be mindful of the national cold outreach laws that apply in your particular region and ensure compliance.</li></ul><p id="">The legislation came into force across the European Union on 25 May 2018. The GDPR covers all the European Union member states and while most member states follow the Opt-in option, there are some which follow the Opt-out option as well.</p><p id="">Countries with an opt-in regime i.e ones that require explicit consent before sending marketing communications are:</p><ul id=""><li id="">Austria</li><li id="">Belgium</li><li id="">Bulgaria</li><li id="">Croatia</li><li id="">Cyprus</li><li id="">Czech Republic</li><li id="">Denmark</li><li id="">Germany</li><li id="">Greece</li><li id="">Italy</li><li id="">Lithuania</li><li id="">Malta</li><li id="">Netherlands</li><li id="">Norway</li><li id="">Poland</li><li id="">Romania</li><li id="">Slovakia</li><li id="">Slovenia</li><li id="">Spain</li></ul><p id="">Countries with an opt-out regime i.e. those that allow sending communications straightaway with an unsubscribe button to withdraw consent are:</p><ul id=""><li id="">Estonia</li><li id="">Finland</li><li id="">France</li><li id="">Hungary</li><li id="">Ireland</li><li id="">Latvia</li><li id="">Luxembourg</li><li id="">Portugal</li><li id="">Sweden</li><li id="">The United Kingdom</li></ul><h3 id="">CASL: The Canadian Anti-Spam Legislation</h3><p id="">Canadian Anti-Spam Legislation (CASL) concerns email marketing and applies to all emails sent to Canadian residents as part of commercial activity.</p><p id="">The primary feature of CASL is that recipients must give companies consent before they can email them. Implied consent can be used to send unsolicited B2B emails if the person’s email address is publicly available (e.g: on company websites) and unaccompanied by a statement which confirms they do not wish to receive email marketing to their business email address.</p><p id="">If the person’s email address isn’t publicly available, B2B companies must ensure they only contact customers or prospects who have given consent. Apart from unambiguous consent, another provision of CASL requires that a clear unsubscribe option is included in all marketing communications.</p><p id="">The penalties under CASL can be severe. The maximum fines are $1 million for individuals and $10 million for corporations per violation.</p><h3 id="">Data privacy and cold outreach law in the United States</h3><h4 id="">Data laws</h4><p id="">In the US, the CAN-SPAM act has been in force since 2003, governing commercial emails. CAN-SPAM dictates that marketers cannot be dishonest when sending electronic messages. It also requires them to provide an unsubscribe function in their emails and act on it within ten days. There are no exceptions for B2B marketers.</p><p id="">CAN-SPAM is enforced primarily by the FTC (Federal Trade Commission). The FTC has the power to impose penalties of up to $16,000 per email that violates CAN-SPAM.<br>Cold outreach laws</p><p id="">The CAN-SPAM Act established the requirements for all commercial messages that promote or advertise a product or service. The law makes no exception for business-to-business email. That means all email including a message to former customers announcing a new product line – must comply with the law.</p><p id=""><strong id="">A. Why should you comply?</strong><br>The CAN-SPAM Act protects receipts with the right to stop receiving unsolicited emails – a failure to comply can cost you harsh penalties of up to $46,517. It applies to any electronic message and not just bulk emails.</p><p id=""><strong id="">B. How to comply?</strong><br>Here are some key guidelines to help you avoid breaching the CAN-SPAM Act when sending commercial emails to U.S-based recipients:</p><ul id=""><li id="">Never use misleading or false information: All the information you provide, including your “from,” “to,” “reply-to,” email address, routing information, and originating domain name must be correct.</li><li id="">Don’t use deceptive subject lines: The email subject line should accurately indicate the content of the email.</li><li id="">Clarify what the message is about: Always clearly state if the email message is an advertisement.</li><li id="">Specify your location: You must include your valid physical address in a cold email. This could be your current street address, a post office box you’ve registered with the U.S. Postal Service, or a private mailbox registered with a commercial mail receiving agency.</li><li id="">Include an opt-out option: Your recipients should be able to opt-out of future emails from you with a clear and unambiguous opt-out message.</li><li id="">Honour recipients’ opt-out requests promptly: You must be able to process opt-out requests within 10-days of receiving them. You can’t charge a fee, require the recipient to give you any personally identifying information beyond an email address, or make the recipient take any step other than sending a reply email or visiting a single page on an Internet website as a condition for honouring an opt-out request.</li><li id="">Ensure compliance by third-party vendors: Any company you hire to handle your email marketing campaigns must comply with CAN-SPAM requirements when sending emails on your behalf.</li></ul><h3 id="">CCPA: The California Consumer Privacy Act</h3><p id="">The California Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA) focuses on consumer privacy rights. The law which came into effect on January 1, 2020, regulates data belonging to individuals, such as internet activity, cookies, IP addresses, and biometric data, as well as “household data” generated by IoT devices in the home, for example.</p><p id="">Under CCPA, consumers have the right:</p><ul id=""><li id="">To know what personal data is collected or sold, and for what purpose, including disclosures of previous sales dating back to January 1, 2019.</li><li id="">To access the data, to request its deletion, and to opt-out of it being collected or sold.</li></ul><p id="">Those who exercise these privacy rights will still be entitled to equal services at the same cost. Consumers will also have the right to sue companies for data breaches and for privacy failures.</p><p id="">Any organisation that could potentially possess the data of a California resident could be subject to CCPA regulations, and non-adherence could lead to penalties of up to $7500 per violation. In addition, consumers will be able to sue companies for data breaches for damages of $100 to $750 per record.</p><h3 id="">LGPD: The Brazilian General Data Protection Act</h3><p id="">In Brazil, the LGPD came into force in August 2020. The law regulates companies that hold data on citizens of Brazil, whether they have a physical presence there or not.</p><p id="">While the LGPD does not have a single example for what it considers as personal data, the legal document does echo parts of the GDPR’s definition of personal data. The LGPD states in various places that personal data can mean any data that, by itself or combined with other data, could identify a person or subject them to a specific treatment.</p><p id="">The LGPD governs how companies can keep data on their customers. This law does not apply to non-personal data, such as B2B data. However, it’s a good illustration of how countries are tightening up their data privacy laws.</p><h3 id="">Australian and New Zealand’s data privacy and cold outreach regulations</h3><h4 id="">Data laws</h4><p id="">In Australia and New zealand, the Privacy Act regulates the handling of personal information by relevant entities. Under the Privacy Act, the Privacy Commissioner has authority to conduct investigations, including own motion investigations, to enforce the Privacy Act and seek civil penalties for serious and egregious breaches or for repeated breaches of the APPs where an entity has failed to implement remedial efforts.</p><p id="">The maximum fine for a serious invasion or repeated invasions of privacy (i.e. breaches of the privacy law) will be increased to up to the greater of AUD 10 million (approx. €6.1 million), three times any benefit obtained from the invasion breach (whichever the greater) and 10% of Australian annual revenue.</p><h4 id="">Cold outreach laws</h4><p id="">In Australia and New Zealand, the Spam Act 2003 applies to any electronic marketing material.</p><p id="">Your cold emails are subject to these regulations whether the mail originated within the nation’s borders or not, as long as the mail is opened in Australia.</p><p id="">To send marketing communications, including cold emails to Australian recipients, you’ll need to obtain either express consent or inferred permission.</p><p id="">Express consent includes:</p><ul id=""><li id="">Completing a form.</li><li id="">Ticking a box on a website.</li><li id="">Agreeing telephonically.</li><li id="">Giving permission in person.</li></ul><p id="">Implied consent applies:</p><ul id=""><li id="">You have an ongoing relationship with the recipient (and can prove this is the case). This includes email subscriptions.</li><li id="">The messages you send are directly related to this relationship</li></ul><p id=""><strong id="">A. Why to comply?</strong><br>The ACMA has the power to take several actions against those who violate the Spam Act 2003. The most serious is to pursue financial penalties in federal court.</p><p id="">The ACMA can ask the federal court to impose an injunction stopping a business from taking actions that breach the Spam Act 2003.</p><p id="">The maximum penalty at present equals AU$2.2 million.</p><p id=""><strong id="">B. How to comply?</strong><br>To comply with the Australian cold outreach law, SPAM Act, be mindful of the following requirements:<br>Get permission to send messages. This includes express or implied consent the specifics of which are delineated above.<br>The commercial electronic message should clearly identify the sender. Your business name should be clear and identifiable, and your contact details should be accurate.<br>Make it simple to unsubscribe — for example, by adding an unsubscribe link.<br>Now that you have an idea of the various laws regarding cold emailing, I’ll go over some practical guidelines to help you send successful cold emails that are also legally compliant.</p><h3 id="">Singapore: The Personal Data Protection Act (PDPA)</h3><p id="">The Personal Data Protection Act (PDPA) provides a baseline standard of protection for personal data in Singapore. The PDPA recognises both the need to protect individuals’ personal data and the need of organisations to collect, use or disclose personal data for legitimate and reasonable purposes.</p><p id="">The PDPA covers personal data stored in electronic and non-electronic formats.</p><p id="">It generally does not apply to:</p><ul id=""><li id="">Any individual acting on a personal or domestic basis.</li><li id="">Any individual acting in his/her capacity as an employee with an organisation.</li><li id="">Any public agency in relation to the collection, use or disclosure of personal data.</li><li id="">Business contact information such as an individual’s name, position or title, business telephone number, business address, business email, business fax number and similar information.</li></ul><p id="">The maximum financial penalty for contravening the PDPA will increase to up to 10% of an organisation’s annual turnover in Singapore, or SGD 1 million, whichever is higher.</p><h2 id="">Five guidelines for sending cold emails legally</h2><p id="">While all regions have specific cold outreach laws, below are some general guidelines to follow to stay in the green zone with regards to executing your outreach:</p><h3 id="">1. Source relevant contacts</h3><p id="">This is the first step but it’s also the most important one. You may be sending a cold email but it does not (and should not) have to be a shot in the dark. One way to ensure it is to keep your mailing lists laser focused on your ideal customer profile. This limits the chances of your email going to spam and also makes it more likely to find a customer.</p><h3 id="">2. Make sure it is relevant</h3><p id="">After you have the right contacts, it is your job to make sure your email is targeted to them. If you have done your research well, you will know some basic information about their company and what is the problem they are trying to solve. Use this information to create a message-market fit basho note for your prospect such that the email reads like it is written specifically for them.</p><p id="">To learn more on how to make your messages relevant, check out my handy guide on message-market fit.</p><h3 id="">3. Make it easy for people to opt-out</h3><p id="">When sending a cold email, you’re assuming the recipient has a legitimate interest in your offering, but they may not. That’s why you should make it simple for them to unsubscribe and stop receiving emails from you in the future. A quick way to do this is by adding a straightforward unsubscribe link at the end of your email.</p><h3 id="">4. Keep your subject lines clear and concise</h3><p id="">One of the keys to avoid breaching an anti-spam law is transparency. This means crafting a subject line that clearly states what the message is about and avoiding clickbait like the plague. Rather, be completely transparent about the purpose of your email. This reduces your bounce rate and the likelihood of the recipient’s spam filter blocking your mail.</p><h3 id="">5. Implement strict data security measures</h3><p id="">You must keep the personal data of your recipients secure. If recipients unsubscribe, remove them from your campaign immediately and delete their details from your database. Be mindful of the individual cold outreach laws in each region mentioned in this blog to avoid hefty penalties and lawsuits.</p><h2 id="">What are the benefits of Data Compliance?</h2><h3 id="">1. Compliance with the law</h3><p id="">The most obvious motivation for focusing on data compliance is of course compliance with the law, as a failure to do so creates an extreme risk to your business. These risks to your company can be financial or reputational. In some cases, this risk can represent the end of your business, and in others you might end up being charged with a hefty fine for non compliance. Apart from the fines, the damage to your company may be irreversible and can negatively affect your company’s reputation.</p><p id="">Consumers need to trust the companies that use their personal data, and a failure to comply can have the effect of customers leaving in droves, and have a nasty effect on your customer retention.</p><h3 id="">2. Increased trust and credibility</h3><p id="">Data compliance can support your business in helping you build more trusting relationships with your customers and the public generally. When gathering consent to use data subjects’ data, you will have to explain clearly and concisely how you will be using their personal information.</p><p id="">Since consumers are becoming more and more suspicious about how their data is handled, the transparency and responsibility you demonstrate will encourage trust in your brand. Thus, you can use the GDPR to underline that you do care about the privacy of your current and prospective customers and stand head and shoulders above your competitors.</p><h3 id="">3. Better understanding of the stored data</h3><p id="">To be compliant, you should know precisely what sensitive information you hold on people. Compliance therefore requires you to audit all the data you have, which will enable you to minimise the data you collect and hold, better organise storages and refine data management processes.</p><p id="">An audit of stored data grants a better understanding of the stored data in two key ways:</p><p id="">First, you will be able to detect and get rid of redundant, obsolete and trivial (ROT) files that your organisation retains, though they do not have business value. By cleaning up the data, you will cut costs on storing and processing this data and perhaps erase sensitive ROT data, such as former customers’ personal information. Even ROT data poses a high and unjustified risk to your organisation, so why take responsibility for something that has no value to you.</p><p id="">Second, after you analyse all data you have, you can implement mechanisms for fulfilling another GDPR requirement — making data globally searchable and indexed. This will help you more easily handle subjects’ requests to delete the data if they exercise their right to be forgotten. On the other hand, this requirement will encourage you to reorganize data storages so your staff will be more productive and efficient while working with accurate, easily searchable and accessible data.</p><h2 id="">Three part B2B data compliance checklist for marketers and data controllers</h2><p id="">To effectively perform data compliance, you need to understand your data and where it comes from. This includes pertinent information like what type of data you collect, how is it used, and what guard is there protecting subjects.</p><p id="">The below section helps you do just that by providing guidance on performing actions required by data compliance authorities for data protection and security.</p><h3 id="">1. Conduct a data audit to check what kind of personal data your company holds on your prospects or customers.</h3><p id="">The first checkpost to data compliance is to conduct a thorough check into which personal data is currently held through a “data audit”. You will need to appoint people across the business to facilitate the audit as this is a very significant piece of work.</p><p id="">It is important to understand what type of data you are dealing with on a regular basis. The type of data you store will determine which information security standards and data security laws you are required to follow, so this is the best place to begin when seeking data security compliance.</p><h3 id="">2. Check how you source your B2B Data to see whether the source is in compliance with data protection laws</h3><p id="">How you source your data plays a very important role in laying the foundation for data protection and compliance as the data collected will often be used for B2B sales by your marketing and sales teams.</p><p id="">If you are collecting data through in-house or internal teams, then you need to make sure that the process used to collect the data is GDPR compliant and that you are sourcing the data with all security measures in place. This involves making sure that all data is thoroughly audited and stored with some encryption to eliminate any chances of fraud or data theft.</p><p id="">When you get the data from a reputable third party or an external source such as hubsell, you can rest assured knowing that the data provided to you is safe and in line with the local data compliance laws. Not only this, the data you receive from us will be enriched across 25 data points such as prospect data, categorical data, firmographic data and contact data, to name a few saving you the pains of working with limited data.</p><h3 id="">3. Audit how you are handling the data to ensure internal processes are upholding data protection</h3><p id="">Now that you understand which kind of data you have and where it comes from, the next thing to pay attention to is what you are doing with this data. Your organisation may perform many processes such as data acquisition, upload, migration, transformation, analysis, storage, recovery and archival. In evaluating how you are processing personal data, consider all the processes that surround your business services, and not be restricted to only those organisational processes for the core business services that you provide.</p><p id="">Companies that send out commercial email marketing campaigns are required by the legislation laws to have opt-in or opt-out options listed in each email depending on the region. Additionally, you should list these legal policies in your privacy statement so customers know how their information is being used.</p><p id="">Furthermore, listing your company’s name, website, address and contact email gives your customer all of your contact information up front in case they have any questions about your privacy policy or how you use their personal information.</p><h2 id="">Bottomline</h2><p id="">In today’s era of big data, data has become central to marketing and strategy. This data-filled world of marketing comes with a caveat, there are issues such as data compliance, consent, and intent that come with data. However, instead of thinking of data compliance regulation as a roadblock, think of it as a necessary tool to disperse cluttering information and establish business connections that actually matter. Next, implement the rules for cold outreach so that your outbound sales keep running smoothly. Remember there is no one size fits all approach to data compliance and cold outreach; as there is no specific rule that applies universally, and different regions adhere to specific laws. The ever changing digital world also adds to the regulatory change and complexity. So, make sure to keep abreast of the latest rules and regulations in the markets your company operates in or simply partner with a reputable third party B2B data supplier like hubsell. When choosing your data supplier, selecting a GDPR adherent B2B data supplier is crucial. If the data supplier is not following GDPR norms, you will be in breach of regulations once you control that data.</p><h2 id="">How hubsell can help with B2B data compliance and cold outreach</h2><p id="">hubsell’s GDPR and ePrivacy adherent sales automation solution makes your outreach secure and seamless. We provide an end-to-end B2B leading solution with on-demand generated B2B data and multi-channel personalised outreach automation software to generate sales qualified leads securely.</p><p id=""><strong id="">Book your discovery call today to see how you can scale your opportunity generation.</strong></p>
