---
title: "B2B landing pages for outbound sales: 11 reasons to use them"
topics: ["Outbound sales", "Lead generation"]
description: "Discover how B2B landing pages revolutionize outbound sales by centralizing your value proposition and building trust through social proof. Use diverse media and low-commitment CTAs to engage prospects at their own pace, gain deep analytics, and qualify leads for a more efficient sales process."
summary: "Multi-channel outreach is definitely one of the best ways to go about generating sales opportunities, but I think we can confidently say that most prospects you reach out to are being bombarded by cold calls, cold emails, social messages, and so forth. So how do you stand out from the crowd?"
publishedAt: 2026-04-14
coverImage: "https://assets.hubsell.com/insights/69d4d9e817d30f2a3c41f657_How-to-follow-up-after-a-prospect-replies-to-a-cold-sales-email-in-B2B.png"
thumbnail: "https://assets.hubsell.com/insights/69d4d9e0f3ae69bdc4d1623d_Thumbnail-How-to-follow-up-after-a-prospect-replies-to-a-cold-sales-email-in-B2B.png"
readTime: "11 min read"
featured: false
sources: "<p>Featured image licensed under Unsplash License:</p><p><a href=\"https://unsplash.com/photos/website-design-concept-with-code-snippets-08EMi2laytU\" target=\"_blank\" rel=\"noopener\">https://unsplash.com/photos/website-design-concept-with-code-snippets-08EMi2laytU</a></p><p></p>"
draft: false
---

<p id="">Multi-channel outreach is definitely one of the best ways to go about generating sales opportunities, but I think we can confidently say that most prospects you reach out to are being bombarded by cold calls, cold emails, social messages, and so forth. So how do you stand out from the crowd?</p><p id="">Landing pages. Uncommonly used in outbound sales, B2B landing pages can bring your campaigns to life and enable you to reap the benefits of both inbound and outbound marketing strategies.</p><p id="">In this post, we are going to explore all the reasons why you should use B2B landing pages in your outbound sales.</p><h2 id="">1. Grab your prospect’s attention by replacing your website’s homepage with a landing page</h2><p id="">Prospects today receive a lot of sales emails and social messages. One of the biggest challenges in outbound sales is to stand out from the crowd and try to engage with potential customers.</p><p id="">Those who are interested in your offer may want to know more but not necessarily have the time to go back and forth with emails to get further information. They are more likely to check you out themselves by visiting your website before considering to reply back to you.</p><p id="">The problem here is that your website’s homepage does not clearly align with the messaging in your outreach and is designed to suit a large audience. Although they can navigate to the relevant pages on your website, you will not have the control to show them what you want them to see.</p><p id="">Providing a highly tailored landing page for your prospects to visit will be a lot more impactful. Landing pages are designed to fit the needs of your target market to showcase information that is specific and relevant to them. You will also be able to control exactly what information you want them to see so they can understand your solution and how it will benefit them.</p><h2 id="">2. Simplify your proposal by delivering your entire offering in one place</h2><p id="">A typical outbound sales campaign can take days or even weeks to complete. Although following up over many touch-points is an effective way of getting a reply, however, it does break up your message, often over multiple channels.</p><p id="">Staggering the delivery of your value proposition across multiple channels and touchpoints can be difficult for the prospect to follow. It can also be challenging to educate and explain the benefits your solution will bring to their company.</p><p id="">On the other hand, creating a landing page for your prospects to visit enables you to deliver everything you want the prospect to know about your solution in one place. Prospects will be better informed about your offer and are more likely to engage with you.</p><h2 id="">3. Convey a stronger message by using a mix of different forms of media</h2><p id="">Unlike other channels, landing pages enable you to deliver content using a mix of different forms of media such as video, audio, images, GIFs, animations, text and other visuals. From these choices, you can create a landing page that explains and demonstrates your solution in a unique and attractive way.</p><p id="">As opposed to using text-based messaging, you can convey your message in a much more meaningful way. Using the data you have on your prospects and drawing from your own experience, you can choose to present your content in the best way that would relate to your prospects.</p><p id="">For example, people in Sales may appreciate content that is bite-sized and more visual such as in video format to quickly understand what you do. Another example could be that senior prospects in the General Management department respond more positively to lengthy text copy to help them better understand the value of their financial investment.</p><h2 id="">4. Create a low commit CTA for prospects to act on in your outbound approach</h2><p id="">Most outbound sales campaigns don’t include a lot of information to avoid overwhelming the prospect. To then deliver the additional information, a CTA asking the prospect for a call is a fair ask but can appear to be quite pushy, especially if they don’t know who you are.</p><p id="">Including a landing page in your outbound sales allows you to change your CTA from asking for a call to asking them to visit your landing page. At a click of a button, a prospect can consume all the information they would need, at their own pace without ever having to engage with a sales rep.</p><p id="">With a lower commit CTA, it would be reasonable to expect a higher number of landing page visits than the number of those who follow through with the original CTA – resulting in a better performing sales campaign.</p><h2 id="">5. Build trust for your company by using social proof</h2><p id="">Most outbound sales activities can be made by all sorts of people which makes it difficult for a prospect to discern whether their offer is beneficial or even legit.</p><p id="">A landing page can gain the trust of prospects by showcasing various types of social proof such as case studies, testimonials, trustmarks and reviews from third-party websites. Seeing what paying customers think of the company and the solution is one of the strongest ways of building credibility.</p><p id="">In addition to the use of social proof, the copy itself can also gain trust. Delivering a message that clearly shows an understanding of the prospect’s potential pain points and provides a solution for their ideal outcome will be highly influential.</p><h2 id="">6. Gain deeper insights on your prospects with valuable analytics and landing pages metrics</h2><p id="">To see how we can optimise the performance of an outbound sales campaign, we can view analytics such as open rate, reply rate and click-through-rate. However, these metrics are somewhat limited and doesn’t provide a deeper insight into the reasons behind a prospect’s behaviour.</p><p id="">Landing pages, on the other hand, enables you to track a number of different metrics to provide a much stronger understanding of its performance. These metrics include landing page views, source of traffic, conversion rate, bounce rate, average time on page, average session time, pages per session, etc.</p><p id="">As you can see, there are a variety of metrics you can use to see what’s working and what isn’t to optimise your outreach campaigns, landing pages and CTAs. These metrics can also help you to have a better understanding of any leads that are generated by analysing their behaviour to see the best way you should progress with them.</p><h2 id="">7. Use your landing page to qualify the prospect to get higher quality leads</h2><p id="">Qualifying prospects is typically a manual task usually taken at the discovery call stage. A prospect can be open to scheduling a call with you but after receiving only a few touch-points and a maybe visit to your website, this would not be enough to fully understand your offer.</p><p id="">In that case, a discovery call would be as much as you qualifying the prospect as it would be educating them on your solution. It is possible that a proportion of those prospects who drop out at this stage are just learning that the solution is not a fit for them, which wastes the sales rep’s time.</p><p id="">To combat this, a tailored landing page can provide all the information a prospect needs to make them understand the benefits they are getting from your solution. By accepting discovery calls from prospects who have visited your landing page, you can be more confident that you would be engaging with higher quality leads.</p><h2 id="">8. Emphasise important information by customising the components on your landing page</h2><p id="">Trying to persuade a prospect via email or LinkedIn can be challenging as these text-based platforms make all messages visually look similar to every other message a prospect would receive.</p><p id="">Landing pages are unique in the way they can be fully customised from the placements of on-page media, the layout of different components and even the colours used. All these components can be customised to direct the prospect’s attention and emphasise the content they will care about.</p><p id="">When a prospect visits a landing page, they will first see everything above the fold so it’s important to grab their attention to keep them engaged. Using colours, captivating headings,&nbsp; animations and much more, are all ways that help guide the prospect to show what you want them to know about you.</p><h2 id="">9. Give your prospect the freedom to consider your offer in their own time</h2><p id="">It is common in outbound sales for a prospect to have to engage with a sales rep to learn more about the solution being offered. However, some prospects may not want to block time out of their day or are simply to busy to.</p><p id="">The purpose of the landing page here would be so that prospects can simply visit the page to see what the offer is and what benefits it could bring them. Since the landing page is available 24/7, they have the freedom to view it whenever they like and even act on the landing page CTA at their own pace.</p><h2 id="">10. Inform the prospects better to receive less uninformed rejections</h2><p id="">Email is a common initial touch-point in a sales campaign. Since it is advisable that emails be only 100 or so characters, a prospect can easily turn you down without knowing or ever seeing the rest of your proposal, yet, you don’t want to overload the prospect with too much information either.</p><p id="">It is possible for a prospect to misunderstand your outreach message without enough detail or dismiss it too early as just another irrelevant sales email. To avoid uninformed rejections, landing pages serve a great purpose in delivering your full proposal, even from the very first touch-point.</p><p id="">It takes very little investment from the prospect’s side and hardly any time to visit your landing page. If a prospect claims they are uninterested after visiting your landing page, then you at least know it was a legitimate rejection rather than being an uninformed rejection.</p><h2 id="">11. Leave a good first impression with a highly tailored landing page</h2><p id="">It can take a lot of effort and research to create a high-quality landing page which will make you stand out since not many other salespeople are using them. Landing pages are a unique strategy used in outbound sales that respects the prospect’s time and provides pure value.</p><p id="">It demonstrates you are trustworthy through the use of social proof and that you are beneficial to them by showcasing relevant content. A highly tailored page will meet the needs of your target persona and demonstrate a clear understanding of the pains they are potentially facing.</p><p id="">Unlike inbound marketing, outbound sales mean you know exactly who you’re targeting, enabling you to create a highly targeted landing page that is designed and customised specifically for them.</p><h2 id="">Sales story landing page</h2><p id="">Now that you’re sold on the idea of using B2B landing pages in your outbound sales strategies, it’s time for you to learn how to take this idea to the next level.</p><p id="">The best outbound sales campaigns are highly personalised and relevant to each prospect delivering a 1-on-1 experience. With emails, phone calls and social media messages all providing a unique prospecting experience, why not continue this experience to the landing page.</p><p id="">The prospecting process is about telling a story about how your solution can meet the needs of your potential customers. hubsell currently enables its customers to automate personalised multi-channel outreach campaigns, but to continue the sales story, we have now extended this to personalised landing pages.</p><p id="">hubsell’s software will auto-generate each and every landing page allowing the prospect to see the entire picture clearly in one place. The content will be personalised to every individual to deliver the highest quality and most relevant content for them.</p><h2 id="">Conclusion</h2><p id="">The modern era of B2B sales is not based so much on selling to the prospect but rather on educating them. With so much information readily available, directly interacting with salespeople to learn more about a solution is becoming less and less of a necessity.</p><p id="">People like to take their time doing their own research and often come to a decision before ever interacting with you. The use of landing pages here is to gather all the resources a prospect would need to make a decision about your solution.</p><p id="">Unlike inbound marketing where you must wait for prospects to land on your page, the outbound approach means you know who you are targeting. You can decide exactly what they should know about you, in what format to present that information, and what desired action you want them to take.</p><p id="">I hope this post was able to show you the benefits of including landing pages in your outbound sales activities and that you consider applying it in your own sales activities.</p><p id=""></p>
