---
title: "How to run multichannel cold outreach in B2B"
topics: ["Multichannel outreach", "Cold email"]
description: "Discover why multi-channel cold outreach outperforms single-channel methods in B2B sales. This post explores essential channels like email, LinkedIn, and cold calling, while providing a step-by-step guide to mastering parallel outreach and using congregation tools to maximize your lead generation."
summary: "Multi-channel outreach is outperforming single-channel outreach. That is why only two percent of sales teams are using just email to reach out to prospects. Multi-channel is a rather new method in the B2B world so there are misconceptions about it. So, in this post, I will explain why a multi-channel approach is better and how to do it the right way."
publishedAt: 2026-03-31
readTime: "6 min read"
featured: false
draft: false
---

<p id="">In 2019, multi-channel cold outreach is outperforming single-channel cold outreach. That is why only two percent of sales teams are using just cold email outreach to reach out to prospects. Since multi-channel is a rather new method in the B2B world, there are misconceptions about it. So, in this post, I will explain why a multi-channel approach is better and how to do it the right way.</p><p id="">Before I start breaking down each topic, here is the list of them for reference:</p><p id=""><strong id="">Why multi-channel outreach is better than single-channel outreach</strong></p><p id="">you do not depend on any single channel<br>may find a better channel altogether<br>give the prospect more chances in different channels</p><p id=""><strong id="">Different channels for cold outreach</strong></p><p id=""><strong id="">How to do multi-channel outreach the right way</strong></p><ul id=""><li id="">focus on two to three channels at first</li><li id="">set them up parallelly</li><li id="">create personalised messages</li><li id="">reach out to prospects</li><li id="">analyse metrics and adapt</li></ul><p id=""><strong id="">The importance of a congregation tool</strong></p><p id="">&nbsp;</p><h2 id="">Why multi-channel outreach is better than single-channel outreach</h2><p id="">Here are the top three reasons for doing multi-channel outreach over single-channel:</p><p id="">you do not depend on any single channel<br>you may find a better channel altogether<br>you give the prospect more chances in different channels to reply to you<br>Markets change and channels become saturated or are abandoned. So, having other options prevents any potential downturn in your channel from decreasing your results. For example, if you are using email and LinkedIn outreach, then the saturation of prospects’ inboxes would not affect you.</p><p id="">On the other hand, by experimenting with new channels you may find a new one that gives you a better ROI. For example, if you were using cold calling to find customers, then you will find that switching to a hybrid with email outreach may enhance your results.</p><p id="">Finally, approaching a prospect in different channels increases the chances of finding the ideal channel for them. That is because each prospect has a different contact medium of preference.</p><p id="">&nbsp;</p><h2 id="">Different channels for cold outreach</h2><p id="">Here are a few channels that you can implement in your sales funnel. I will include what they are, why they are useful, and how to start using them.</p><p id=""><strong id="">1. Email – send targeted emails to find ideal prospects interested in your product<br></strong>Cold emails are powerful because you quickly find sales-ready leads. Use them as one of your main channels for cold outreach since they are non-intrusive and email will not go away for a long time.</p><p id="">Step 1. choose an email tool in the marketplace with the right features</p><p id="">Step 2. write dynamic templates based on successful campaigns</p><p id="">Step 3. gather qualitative contact data on your target prospects</p><p id="">Step 4. reach out and profit</p><p id=""><strong id="">2. LinkedIn or Xing – start conversations with prospects by sending connection requests or messages<br></strong>Social selling is effective in B2B due to social platforms’ innate networking nature. Especially the platforms geared towards professionals.</p><p id="">Use LinkedIn as one of your main channels because 80% of B2B leads come from it.</p><p id="">Step 1. choose a tool for automated social outreach</p><p id="">Step 2. write dynamic messages tailored to the recipient</p><p id="">Step 3. gather quality data on prospects</p><p id="">Step 4. reach out and reap the rewards</p><p id=""><strong id="">3. Cold calling – call prospects to initiate live dialogues through the phone and find opportunities<br></strong>Cold calling is still useful combined with other channels. As a standalone channel, it can be quite disruptive to prospects and provide a lower ROI.</p><p id="">Use a call when prospects are warmed up and interested in your product. It can serve as a shortcut to a deal.</p><p id="">Step 1. make a list of prospects with the potential to use your product</p><p id="">Step 2. gather basic intel and phone number on them</p><p id="">Step 3. reach out through other channels (e.g.: email)</p><p id="">Step 3. cold call prospects that have shown high interest</p><p id="">Now that you know the reasons why multi-channel is better than single-channel, and have examples of channels to introduce in your funnel, let’s dissect how to do it the right way.</p><p id="">&nbsp;</p><h2 id="">How to multi-channel outreach the right way</h2><p id="">In this section, I am assuming that you have your ideal customer profile and a list of prospects on hand. So, let’s examine the lessons to perfect your multi-channel approach.</p><p id="">&nbsp;</p><h3 id="">1. Focus on two to three channels at first</h3><p id="">It is better to focus on fewer channels first and master them to not spread yourself too thin. That way you can concentrate resources and get a better ROI.</p><p id="">&nbsp;</p><h3 id="">2. Set up the channels parallelly</h3><p id="">Use a software that can send messages parallelly and conditionally in an automated fashion. Also, have the sending of messages stop as soon as the prospect replies on any channel.</p><p id="">&nbsp;</p><h3 id="">3. Create personalised messages</h3><p id="">Create personalised messages to increase the chances of getting a reply from prospects. You can do so by using dynamic placeholders.</p><p id="">&nbsp;</p><h3 id="">4. Reach out to prospects</h3><p id="">Start your outreach process by activating the campaign in all the channels at the same time. That will allow you to connect with the prospect in their prefered channel.</p><p id="">&nbsp;</p><h3 id="">5. Analyse metrics and adapt</h3><p id="">Analyse the metrics of your campaign to see which channels work best and adjust your campaigns accordingly.</p><p id="">If you would like to keep exploring the topic of cold outreach, then I suggest reading our other article on avoiding the 14 most common cold outreach mistakes.</p><p id="">Let’s now explore why this whole process is ideally done through a congregation tool.</p><p id="">&nbsp;</p><h2 id="">The importance of a congregation tool</h2><p id="">Here are the reasons why it is important to have the process of multi-channel outreach under one powerful software.</p><p id="">&nbsp;</p><p id="">Reason 1: have everything under one dashboard connected to your CRM to keep it simple.</p><p id="">Reason 2: the software automatically stops the prospect from getting more messages when they reply.</p><p id="">Reason 3: you are able to send prospects different messages based on their reactions to your previous ones (e.g.: opened/unopened).</p><p id="">Reason 4: you have the process working parallelly to fully utilise the benefits of multi-channel outreach. All your channels are working to get a conversation started with the prospect.</p><p id="">&nbsp;</p><h2 id="">Conclusion</h2><p id="">In this post, I showed that multi-channel outreach is better than single-channel. Also, I went over the different channels you can implement. And a few lessons I have learned to do multi-channel outreach correctly. Hopefully, with what I have shared, you will be able to increase your lead generation. Here are the key takeaways from this post:</p><p id="">&nbsp;</p><p id="">Why multi-channel is better than single-channel</p><p id="">you do not depend on any single channel<br>you may find a better channel altogether<br>you give the prospect more chances in different channels to reply to you<br>Different channels for cold outreach</p><p id="">email<br>LinkedIn<br>Xing<br>Facebook<br>cold calling<br>How to multi-channel outreach the right way</p><p id="">focus on two to three channels at first<br>set them up parallelly<br>create personalised messages<br>reach out to prospects<br>analyse metrics and adapt<br>The importance of a congregation tool</p><p id="">you can organise everything under one dashboard<br>it stops reaching out once you get a reply<br>you get conditional pathways<br>sources:<br>Topohq.com<br>https://blog.topohq.com/age-multi-channel-prospecting-despite-hype-nothing-dead/<br>Business.linkedin.com<br>https://business.linkedin.com/marketing-solutions/blog/linkedin-b2b-marketing/2017/10-surprising-stats-you-didnt-know-about-marketing-on-linkedin</p>
