---
title: "The best B2B sales podcasts to follow"
topics: ["Sales skills"]
description: "Discover the best B2B sales podcasts to boost your career in 2021. This comprehensive list features top shows like Daily Sales Tips and Sales Success Stories, offering expert advice on prospecting, sales processes, and business psychology. Perfect for SDRs and C-level executives looking to lead and"
summary: "With a wealth of sales podcasts available, it can be hard to find ones that really appeal to you. See this list for the most popular choices."
publishedAt: 2026-04-23
coverImage: "https://assets.hubsell.com/insights/69e9ed0520c1fe2094cea3ba_The-only-list-you-will-need-for-the-latest-and-greatest-sales-podcasts.png"
thumbnail: "https://assets.hubsell.com/insights/69e9ecfe8473c3433a4a5f0c_Thumbnail-The-only-list-you-will-need-for-the-latest-and-greatest-sales-podcasts.png"
readTime: "20 min read"
featured: false
sources: "<p>Featured image licensed under Unsplash License:</p><p><a href=\"https://unsplash.com/photos/vertical-background-image-of-podcast-recording-studio-with-two-chairs-copy-space-SlAZ45OZhRc\" target=\"_blank\" rel=\"noopener\">https://unsplash.com/photos/vertical-background-image-of-podcast-recording-studio-with-two-chairs-copy-space-SlAZ45OZhRc</a></p>"
draft: false
---

<p id="">Whatever your role in B2B sales, there’s a podcast for you. You can gain a wealth of advice from experienced Sales Representatives to C-Level individuals. Whether you’re prospecting, developing your team’s sales processes, or managing your sales funnel, there’s advice for you.</p><p id="">Listening to podcasts is a great way to get valuable sales tips while you’re walking, commuting, or making coffee. A lot of the podcasts air daily, and episodes can be as short as 5 minutes. Why not find some new ones to get ahead this year?</p><p id="">With a large number of podcasts available it can be hard to find the rights ones. So this list breaks down some of the most popular and current choices.</p><p id="">Let’s find your spark and mentors for 2021.</p><p id="">&nbsp;</p><h2 id="">B2B Sales Questions &amp; Brutally Honest Answers by Brian Burns</h2><p id="">Brian Burns, CEO of B2B revenue, is the host of this podcast. You can connect with Brian’s profile here on LinkedIn. You can listen to this podcast here.</p><p id="">Brian shares sales advice which he has gained from years of experience in B2B sales. He has undertaken roles which have ranged from Sales Representative all the way to CEO. This makes the podcast very useful for many roles in the sales industry.</p><p id="">This podcast is very compelling and understandable. It’s very easy to keep listening, especially as the episodes are around 10 minutes long. The episodes also air daily.</p><p id="">Brian focusses on how to increase productivity, sales revenue and engage prospects in outbound B2B sales. Also, how to develop yourself professionally. You can learn how to improve your sales process and close more deals.</p><p id="">Recommended episode is ‘How to be good at something you suck at’. Great to listen to while setting your monthly goals.</p><p id="">&nbsp;</p><h2 id="">Daily Sales Tips by Scott Ingram</h2><p id="">Scott Ingram is the founder of the Sales Success Summit. You can follow Scott on LinkedIn and listen to his podcast here.</p><p id="">Daily Sales Tips is very insightful, encouraging, and a must-listen-motivator. If you’re a Sales Manager or a Sales Representative looking to evaluate your sales processes and achieve more deals, you should listen to this podcast.</p><p id="">Scott gives invaluable advice on business psychology, how to adapt, and how to increase the number of closed deals. Specifically he discusses sales pipelines, sales processes, and how to produce more efficient sales cycles.</p><p id="">Episodes are efficiently around 3-4 minutes each and will grab your attention. They air daily and usually have different guests. There’s also over 700 episodes available.</p><p id="">Recommended episode is ‘690: How to make sales use the CRM – Jeroen Corthout’.</p><p id="">&nbsp;</p><h2 id="">Sales Success Stories by Scott Ingram</h2><p id="">This podcast is also by Scott and includes lots of expert advice from his Sales Success Summits. You can listen to the podcast here.</p><p id="">Scott has expert guests on the podcast and clips from expert speakers at the Summits. This podcast has aired since 2016. It would benefit many B2B sales roles, especially Sales Development Representatives.</p><p id="">A key topic is how to continuously develop your skills to close more deals. Specifically how to develop the skills needed for successful B2B outreach. He gives advice on how to improve your selling performance and your sales processes.</p><p id="">Episodes are mostly an hour but can be 5 minutes to over 2 hours. Episodes air weekly, but Sales Success Summit episodes air daily when the event takes place.</p><p id="">Recommended episode is ‘Live From the 2020 Sales Success Summit’.</p><p id="">&nbsp;</p><h2 id="">Make It Happen Mondays – B2B Sales Talk with John Barrows</h2><p id="">John Barrows is the CEO of JBarrows LLC sales training company. You can listen to the podcast here and find John on LinkedIn here.</p><p id="">A different guest is featured in each episode. This podcast is casual but informative, and enjoyable to listen to.</p><p id="">John gives in-depth information on sales strategies and career development advice. This podcast would benefit a range of sales roles, particularly those starting out as Sales Development Representatives and also Sales Managers.</p><p id="">Strategies in B2B outbound prospecting are discussed and how this can increase your sales. Particular topics include cold outreach strategies, insights, and how to sell your product to Senior Executives.</p><p id="">Episodes are around 30-50 minutes and are uploaded weekly.</p><p id="">Recommended episode is ‘164: Jason Bay On Cold Calling Strategy’.</p><p id="">&nbsp;</p><h2 id="">Modern Sales – B2B Selling Podcast by Liston Witherill</h2><p id="">If you’re interested in the psychology of selling, listen to this podcast here. Liston’s LinkedIn can also be found here.</p><p id="">Modern Sales focuses on how you can apply business psychology to your sales processes and close more deals. A range of advice is given on B2B outbound sales, sales engagement and segmentation to win more deals.</p><p id="">In-depth advice is given but is balanced with an informal yet professional tone. He interviews guests regularly. You can expect to gain essential information on successful prospecting and improving your outreach campaigns.</p><p id="">Episodes are around half an hour and air weekly.</p><p id="">Recommended episode is ‘128 – [Interview] How to Sell During the Crisis with Jake Dunlap of Skaled Consulting’.</p><p id="">&nbsp;</p><h2 id="">Sales Gravy Podcast by Jeb Blount</h2><p id="">Jeb Blount is the founder of Sales Gravy and you can listen to the podcast here. You can find Jeb Blount here on LinkedIn.</p><p id="">Jeb’s podcast is professional but relaxed and would benefit sales leaders and new Sales Representatives. Detailed advice is given but in an understandable and compelling way.</p><p id="">You can learn about how to improve your sales engagement strategies and B2B outreach. Specifically, the importance of personalisation, effective follow-up and finding your leads’ pain points before pitching.</p><p id="">Episodes are around 10 minutes but some are around 20-60 minutes. They air around twice weekly, and there’s over 100 episodes available.</p><p id="">Recommended episode is ‘The 2 Sales Follow Up Superpowers’.</p><p id="">&nbsp;</p><h2 id="">The Ziglar Show with Kevin Miller</h2><p id="">You can listen to advice from renowned Zig Ziglar here and connect here on LinkedIn.</p><p id="">This podcast is a great all-rounder for sales professionals in all roles. It gives advice on the basics of selling to refining your sales techniques. Advice covers sales engagement, effective communication and how to get more deals.</p><p id="">There’s also great tips on how to lead a successful life and career to become more productive overall. One example he explores is the benefits of including the right music into your routine.</p><p id="">Episodes are half an hour to over an hour.</p><p id="">Recommended episode is ‘838: Selling When They Say No’.</p><p id="">&nbsp;</p><h2 id="">Sales Influence by Victor Antonio</h2><p id="">Victor is an experienced keynote speaker and author, as you can see from his LinkedIn. You can listen to his podcast here.</p><p id="">Sales Influence is great for those who want to learn more about business psychology and how to use it to increase sales. The style is laid-back, informal and would suit salespeople ranging from Senior Management to Sales Representatives starting out.</p><p id="">Victor focusses on the importance of adapting your processes to increase your sales further. He explains different sales strategies and developing the skills you need to influence. Evidence-based solutions are given to form the basis of your sales processes and techniques.</p><p id="">Episodes air daily to weekly, and range from around 10 minutes to 2 hours.</p><p id="">Recommended episode is ‘#13 – Sales Enablement with Aaron Evans on Sales Influence(r)’.</p><p id="">&nbsp;</p><h2 id="">Sales School with Jordan Belfort, AKA The Wolf of Wall Street</h2><p id="">You can listen to the world-renowned, Jordan Belfort here and reach out to him on LinkedIn.</p><p id="">He goes into detail about successful sales processes, good cold outreach and how to turn more prospects into customers. Valuable tips are given like know your leads, increase productivity, segmentation, and good old-fashioned hard work.</p><p id="">The advice in this podcast is very well articulated. It would be useful to new Sales Representatives and those who want to improve their pitches. You can expect to get lots of advice on good prospecting, objection handling and using pain points.</p><p id="">Sales School airs mostly daily and are around 5-15 minutes.</p><p id="">Recommended episode is ‘The 5 Key Elements of the Straight Line’.</p><p id="">&nbsp;</p><h2 id="">The Tim Ferriss Show by Tim Ferriss</h2><p id="">You can listen to Tim’s podcast here on his website and find him here on LinkedIn.</p><p id="">If you find that you are focusing on work way too much, listen to Tim’s podcast. He explores how you can have a successful lifestyle to ensure you succeed at work. Particular topics include how to have a successful routine, the importance of keeping fit and having quality sleep.</p><p id="">There’s also book reviews and existential explorations making this podcast refreshing and intriguing. A different guest features in each episode and include A-List celebrities such as Matthew McConaughey.</p><p id="">Episodes are around 2-3 hours and are uploaded weekly.</p><p id="">Recommended episode is ‘#466: Richard Koch on Mastering the 80/20 Principle, Achieving Unreasonable Success, and The Art of Gambling’.</p><p id="">&nbsp;</p><h2 id="">Salesman by Will Barron</h2><p id="">Salesman has over 500,000 monthly downloads, which you can fine here. You can also follow Will here on LinkedIn.</p><p id="">This podcast has a lot of content but is relaxed and enjoyable to listen to. There’s a lot of humour mixed with top-notch research. It focusses a lot on data analytics, data-driven decisions and metrics.</p><p id="">Furthermore, he talks about how data should inform B2B outreach and how it relates to success. There’s also a lot of information on sales development, business psychology and different technology comparisons.</p><p id="">Episodes are around 40 minutes, but range from less than 10 minutes to over an hour. They air mostly daily but can be every few days.</p><p id="">Recommended episode is ‘Cold Email “Open Rates” Don’t Matter Anymore? Beards Close More Deals?! – TWIS’.</p><p id="">Conversations with Women in Sales with Lori Richardson, in memory of Barb Giamanco<br>You can listen to the women here and interact with Lori on her LinkedIn profile.</p><p id="">Each episode features a different female in a high-level position in sales and marketing. There’s also advice from female sales trainers, authors and more.</p><p id="">There’s a great deal of advice targeted towards females’ success in sales, at any stage of your career. They explain what they do, the challenges they face both in the current economic climate and their experience as female leaders.</p><p id="">There’s also useful sales and professional development advice regardless of your gender. The style is professional and polite. This is a highly insightful and informative choice.</p><p id="">Episodes are around half an hour and air around weekly.</p><p id="">Recommended episode is ‘70: How News &amp; Data Empower Customers w/ CRO Nancy McNeill, Dow Jones’.</p><p id="">&nbsp;</p><h2 id="">The Sales Hacker Podcast by Sam Jacobs</h2><p id="">Sam hosts this podcast here at saleshacker.com. You can find his LinkedIn profile here and the Sales Hacker page here also.</p><p id="">The Sales Hacker Podcast is like a radio show style discussion with guests who are sales experts across the industry. It has a very professional and polite tone. It would be most useful to those keen on learning about scaling.</p><p id="">Particular areas explored are growing companies large-scale, revenue generation and rev-ops. However, there’s useful tips on a variety of sales roles including sales engagement and training.</p><p id="">Episodes are around 40-50 minutes, but ‘Friday Fundamentals’ are around 6 minutes, and they air weekly.</p><p id="">Recommended episode is ‘Friday Fundamentals: 101. Ilan Jacobson on the #1 Trait that Drives Successful Sales People’.</p><p id="">&nbsp;</p><h2 id="">Sell or Die by Jeffrey and Jen Gitomer</h2><p id="">You can listen to this podcast here. Also you can follow Jeffrey here on LinkedIn and connect with Jen here on Linkedin.</p><p id="">You can expect to get a relaxed approach to sales advice on a range of topics, with a lot of personal development tips too. You can learn about setting your goals, the power of self-confidence and get motivated.</p><p id="">Sales advice is valuable to a range of sales roles. Particular areas include how to follow-up with leads and customers correctly. Advice is shared from people who have started their own companies as well.</p><p id="">Episodes are around 10 minutes to an hour, and generally air weekly.</p><p id="">Recommended episode is ‘The Art of Sales, the Follow Up, and Closing with Jeff Shore’.</p><p id="">&nbsp;</p><h2 id="">The Art of Sales with Art Sobczak</h2><p id="">Art is an author who specialises in training sales representatives. You can follow him here on LinkedIn and listen to the podcast here.</p><p id="">This podcast is great for learning how to communicate with sales prospects for successful B2B outreach. Art goes into the core rules of inbound and outbound sales so it’s great for new Sales Reps and those who want to perfect their techniques.</p><p id="">He takes you through how to make warm and cold calls, emails, and use other channels. He includes everything from what to say to how to say it, and why it gets results.</p><p id="">Episodes vary from 5-30 minutes, but can be over an hour.</p><p id="">Recommended episode is ‘170 This Guy Was TELLING, Not Selling’.</p><p id="">&nbsp;</p><h2 id="">B2B Growth Show with Timmy Bauer</h2><p id="">You can listen to the show here and follow their page here on LinkedIn.</p><p id="">Timmy interviews guests and they talk about marketing, sharing their experiences and sales advice. It’s good for salespeople who want to perfect sales calls, negotiation and communication with prospects across channels to increase revenue.</p><p id="">There’s also advice on good content on social media, case studies, and a range of touchpoints. The style is professional and laid back with lots of valuable insight. There’s also some chat about other topics which makes this podcast informative and interesting.</p><p id="">Episodes are around 5-50 minutes and there’s plenty available.</p><p id="">Recommended episode is ‘Start Using Customer Testimonials That Aren’t All Praise’ with Mark Montgomery.</p><p id="">&nbsp;</p><h2 id="">The Advanced Selling Podcast with Bill Caskey and Bryan Neale</h2><p id="">This podcast can be listened to here and you can find their LinkedIn page here.</p><p id="">Bill and Bryan are great co-hosts and provide a plethora of advice across sales roles. The Podcast is humorous and the hosts are highly knowledgeable. It’s an enjoyable listen.</p><p id="">You can gain a large amount of knowledge on aspects of sales pipelines, sales funnels, and how to close more deals. Particular tips include how to make successful cold calls, sales forecasts and good sales prospecting.</p><p id="">The episodes are around 15-20 minutes and air weekly.</p><p id="">Recommended episode is ‘#618: Lead Generation or Conversion? You Pick’.</p><p id="">&nbsp;</p><h2 id="">Catalyst Sales with Mike Simmons</h2><p id="">You can listen to Mike’s podcast here and connect with him on LinkedIn here.</p><p id="">Particular topics covered include up-to-date and specific advice on revops, pipelines and sales processes. Guest speakers give their expertise on a wider range of topics though. There’s episodes on marketing, data, hiring, and more, making it accessible to many roles.</p><p id="">This is a very interesting and varied podcast with a lot of focus on the buyer’s journey and experience. Another common theme is how processes and systems shape company growth and revenue. The style is relaxed, easy-to-follow, and gives valuable insight into good company culture.</p><p id="">Episodes air weekly and are around 10-50 minutes.</p><p id="">Recommended episode is ‘Building Out Process and Revenue Operations with Guest Tim Clarke – 222’.</p><p id="">&nbsp;</p><h2 id="">Best Selling Podcast with Vince Beese</h2><p id="">Vince Beese is Head of Enterprise at Kustomer and hosts the Best Selling Podcast here on his website. You can also connect with Vince here on LinkedIn.</p><p id="">B2B sales development is a strong focus of this podcast. You can expect to get information on sales engagement, sales enablement and coaching to improve your sales skills.</p><p id="">Vince has expertise in sales consultancy like many of his guests. Sales experts on the show have been experts in CRM, social media, data and much more. This is a great all-round podcast for those in B2B sales.</p><p id="">The episodes are around 40 minutes and air around every 3 weeks.</p><p id="">Recommended episode is ‘Ep. 071 Build your Brand through Social Engagement’.</p><p id="">&nbsp;</p><h2 id="">Sales Leadership by Paul Lanigan</h2><p id="">Paul is the Managing Director of Sandler Training Ireland. You can listen to Paul’s podcast here and connect with him on LinkedIn.</p><p id="">Paul interviews leaders in the sales industry who share their experience and advice on these roles. It’s a relaxed interview and a wider exploration on becoming leaders. You can gain a valuable insight into their journeys and tips for success.</p><p id="">Listening is easy and the stories are interesting. You can take a lot of advice away from this podcast. Themes include how to be motivated, how to get into leadership, and how to adapt.</p><p id="">Episodes are around 25-55 minutes and air around weekly with different guest speakers.</p><p id="">Recommended episode is ‘Master the art of selling w/Tom Hopkins’.</p><p id="">&nbsp;</p><h2 id="">The Sales Management. Simplified. Podcast with Mike Weinberg</h2><p id="">Mike is a consultant sales trainer. You can listen to his new podcast on his website and connect with him here on LinkedIn.</p><p id="">He interviews sales leaders and they have a casual conversation covering many important topics in sales management. They’ve discussed the impact of COVID on sales behaviours, processes and solutions to these challenges.</p><p id="">Advice covers a wide breadth such as prospecting, pipeline management and how to close more deals. You can gain knowledge on how to sell, the psychology of selling for success and how to be an effective leader.</p><p id="">Episodes are around 20-50 minutes long. So far there’s been a couple of episodes per month.</p><p id="">Recommended episode is ‘How a Top Producer Prospects, Owns Sales Process, Beats Procurement &amp; Drives Profit’.</p><p id="">&nbsp;</p><h2 id="">The Bowery Capital Startup Sales Podcast with Evan McElwain and Jessica Bernido</h2><p id="">You can find Evan here on LinkedIn and co-host, Jessica, here LinkedIn. You can listen to their podcast here on their website.</p><p id="">This is a great podcast if you’re particularly interested in rev-ops and start-ups. It gives an insight into how others have developed their companies. There’s also a lot of information on marketing campaigns as well as B2B sales prospecting, so there’s something for everyone in sales and marketing.</p><p id="">They include a list of the questions asked in each episode under the video. This is hugely beneficial as you can judge if the episode is going to apply to you in advance. So you can find the right episodes for you without losing much time.</p><p id="">Episodes are around half an hour to 50 minutes and air around weekly to every 3 weeks.</p><p id="">Recommended episode is ‘BC Startup Sales Podcast – Building Your First Revenue Operations Model with Brandon Jones (Komodo Health)’.</p><p id="">&nbsp;</p><h2 id="">Predictable Revenue Podcast with Collin Stewart</h2><p id="">Collin is co-founder of Predictable Revenue. You can connect with Collin here on LinkedIn and listen to the podcast here.</p><p id="">This is a great sales podcast for a variety of B2B sales roles, from CEOs to Account Managers to Sales Reps and beyond. Each episode features a different guest. They give advice on winning more sales, producing your own product, team management and more.</p><p id="">It’s a really relaxed podcast with lots of advice on starting your own company and scaling worldwide with huge revenue growth. There’s also advice for tackling what’s ahead in 2021.</p><p id="">Episodes air weekly and are around half an hour to one and a half hours.</p><p id="">Recommended episode is ‘177: The 4 Pillar Sales Process That Generated £10M in Revenue with Kieren O’Connor’.</p><p id="">&nbsp;</p><h2 id="">Young Hustlers with Grant Cardone and Jarrod Glandt</h2><p id="">Grant Cardone is bestselling author of The 10X Rule, and Jarrod is President at Cardone Enterprises. You can listen to this podcast on Grant’s website.</p><p id="">If you’re motivated to do well or you need motivation, this podcast is for you. Sales reps can get a lot of invaluable tips from Grant and Jarrod on how to sell and do it well. It’s not just for millennials or sales reps or people who want to be billionaires though. Everyone in sales can get top-notch, expert advice on your sales pipelines, your pitches, and how to produce results.</p><p id="">Also those in marketing roles can gain a lot from listening as well. Guests are highly knowledgeable and there’s a really positive atmosphere. It’s highly informative, easy to absorb and you can get a lot of info in a real-world context. They even interact with viewers in the podcast and via social media, so you can get any questions you have answered.</p><p id="">Episodes air weekly and they are around one hour each.</p><p id="">Recommended episode is ‘How to Bank Your First Million’.</p><p id="">&nbsp;</p><h2 id="">The Modern Selling Podcast with Mario Martinez Jr.</h2><p id="">Mario Martinez Jr. is the CEO and Founder of Vengreso, and you can listen to his podcast on his website.</p><p id="">Mario interviews C-Level guests on this podcast, and they cover a wide range of topics. Guests explore their background, their work experiences, and some personal informal information too. There’s a huge amount of advice on how to be a successful C-Level business person. They talk about the current changes and challenges in sales and how to continue to be productive right now.</p><p id="">This podcast is maybe more geared to those who are more experienced in the B2B sales world. Those who work in positions of authority or are aiming for those C-Level roles can get a lot of tips from Mario. Mario’s guests are also from around the globe which is really useful to a wider audience.</p><p id="">Episodes are hosted online around weekly to every two weeks and they’re about 50 minutes long.</p><p id="">Recommended episode is ‘Shifting your Sales Strategy to an Outcome-Based Model with Christoph Schell’.</p><p id="">&nbsp;</p><h2 id="">30 Minutes to President’s Club | No-Nonsense Sales (Nick Cegelski &amp; Armand Farrokh)</h2><p id="">This popular podcast by Nick and Armand is available on spotify or apple podcasts.</p><p id="">If you need actionable sales insights without the unnecessary fluff, this podcast is for you. As soon as you visit the website, you see the words ‘Actionable tactics that get you right to President’s Club’ presented at you. And that’s what the format is about.</p><p id="">The episodes give you actionable insights in no more than 30 minutes – that will help you think smarter and win more deals.</p><p id="">Every episode leads with 3 actionable tactics in the first 5 minutes. The best thing about this podcast is that they skip theory and cut right to the chase so you can instantly find the skills you are looking for.</p><p id="">&nbsp;</p><h2 id="">Tales From The Field with Amy Volas</h2><p id="">Tales from the field is hosted by Amy Volas who is the co-founder of Thursday Night Sales and one of the top sales voices on LinkedIn. You can find this podcast on Apple podcast and Spotify.</p><p id="">If you are someone who has a hard time overcoming challenges in sales, or are generally in need for a pick-me-up bundled with quick lessons, this one is for you.</p><p id="">In this podcast, Amy Volas talks to sales practioners and leaders to get insights into missteps and failures in their sales career and uncovers valuable lessons from it in an interactive format.</p><p id="">What makes this podcast so inspiring is the way it teaches you to detach yourself from the mistakes you make as a salesperson such that you are able to expand your perspective and learn from your mistakes rather than getting overwhelmed by them.</p><p id="">&nbsp;</p><h2 id="">Other Podcast Choices</h2><p id="">The Transformative Sales Podcast (Rich Wellington) Sales Ops Demystified (Tom Hunt) The B2B Sales Podcast (Ara Escobedo &amp; Thibaut Souyris) The Sales Dojo (Leon McCowan) Full Funnel (Tyler Lessard and Rajiv Nathan) Get started! Which podcasts do you prefer, from this list or beyond?</p><p id="">&nbsp;</p><p id="">Trying to focus on expert advice outside of long working hours can be challenging. Active listening is a technique that can help you retain more information.</p><p id="">Try to focus on keywords, and summarise what you have heard in your own words. Sharing information and promoting discussions with others is also a great way to remember more.</p><p id="">If you haven’t been inspired by these podcasts, why not create your own? If you’re looking for more B2B lead generation ideas, see this list at hubsell insights.</p>
